1. Understanding a Full-Stack Chatbot Architecture
Modern chatbot systems use a client → backend API → AI model structure.
The backend is the mediator that:
Accepts user messages 
Preprocesses input
Retrieves relevant context (FAQ, vector DB, etc.)
Sends a composed prompt to the LLM
Returns a structured response
This separation improves security, scalability, and allows for plugging in model updates without touching the frontend.
2. Building an Embedding + Vector Retrieval Layer
Creating vector embeddings from text (FAQ questions + answers).
Storing them in a vector database such as:
Pinecone
ChromaDB
FAISS (local)
Vector search retrieves semantically similar questions when a user types something unclear.
This becomes the foundation for your model’s retrieval-augmented generation (RAG).
Key Concepts Learned:
Cosine similarity
Chunking data
Metadata structures: { id, question, answer, embedding }
3. Designing REST API Endpoints
Learned how to structure backend endpoints for a chatbot:
/ask
Accepts:
{ "query": "Where is the library?" }
Returns:
{ "response": "The library is..." }
/embed-data
For loading or updating FAQ dataset.
/health
Basic ping to ensure the backend is active.
4. Proper Request-Response Error Handling
Using try/except blocks in Python FastAPI to return structured errors.
Example:
{ "error": "Vector DB unreachable" }
On React: showing user-friendly messages instead of crashes.
5. Using React to Build a Dynamic Frontend
Learned patterns:
useState for message storage
Chat bubbles that map over message arrays
Integrating a “loading” indicator
Using fetch() or Axios for clean API calls
Auto-scroll behavior in chat windows
6. Persisting Conversations
Learned how to store conversations either client-side or server-side.
Enables “context threads” so the chatbot behaves more coherently over multiple messages.
7. How to Manage Environment Variables
Never commit API keys.
Learned to use:
.env.local for React
.env for Python
GitHub best practice: push .env.example showing variable names only.
